I mean you mentioned interestingly
people like Joe Rogan and Russell Brown
have been being considered a gateway to
the alt-right they're still
traditionally politically uh more more
akin to the left but because they've
deviated slightly you have this kind of
puritanical Sledgehammer coming down and
saying no you're you're you're straying
from what what our ideology says you
should believe and that to me also feels
like a fundamentalist religion
[Music]
thank you
hello to everyone watching and listening
today I'm speaking once again because
we've done it before with playwright
journalist and political satirist Andrew
Doyle also known as titanium McGrath we
discuss the intentional irrationality of
the far left doctrines that use
religious rhetoric and practices despite
the absence of God or perhaps the
presence of a different God
their Paramount desire to dismantle
societal structures regardless of need
or Merit
the argument for Transcendence inherent
in the pursuit of Art
and how woke culture stifles genuine
expression forcing Dogma to take the
place of fundamental truths and say
purposefully doing so
looking forward to it
well Mr darling it's good to see you
again
I think we're we're damn near friends or
at least I like you I don't know what
you think about me but feelings very
much Mutual Jordan thank you so much
well that's good well us reprehensible
types you know we need to stick together
we do
yeah yeah that's for sure so the first I
thought I'd hassle you for a bit first
um I got two things to hassle you about
I think the first is it says on your
Wikipedia page for whatever that's worth
that you regard yourself as as left wing
and so I think you deserve some
harassment for that but also I I'd like
I don't know what the hell that means
anymore and then after I've done bugging
you about that I thought I'd bother you
about having a PhD in early Renaissance
poetry and okay humiliation complete
okay let's start with the left wing
thing okay yes well
firstly I'd say that Wikipedia is full
of Errors I wouldn't trust absolutely
everything you see on Wikipedia however
on that score I think it's broadly
accurate
um I know that I mean I've I've never
voted for a right-wing party uh I did
vote for Jeremy corbyn which to be
honest I now regret
um as you should I think if you put were
to I'm with you I don't really know what
left wing and right wing means anymore I
think the culture War has in fact
obliterated those two designations I
really do believe that because
you know if you were to write down my
views on most subjects and sort of give
them to an impartial Observer and say is
this person on the left or on the right
I think broadly speaking most of my
values would fall into what
traditionally would be considered
left-wing uh I think I have some sort of
more conservative values when it comes
to culture and education and the Arts
perhaps but that's the same as someone
like George Orwell who was very much a
cultural conservative as well as being a
socialist
um I think economically speaking I do
believe in uh Fair dis Fair
proportionate taxation of the wealthy I
do believe in the welfare state
um all of those sort of I believe in
redressing economic inequality uh
looking out for Working Class People
social Mobility so all of these kind of
things I think would traditionally be
deemed to be left-wing but I think what
the culture War has effectively done is
uh it's it's it's uh substituted
identity group identity for the notion
of class and money and what that now
means is that people who describe
themselves as Levering are nothing of
the kind I mean most of the activists
that you see the the sort of most
vociferous cheerleaders of the critical
social justice movement tend to be uh
well let's put it nicely quite Posh they
tend to have quite plummy voices double
barrel names they're called things like
Hugo ponsford and Sage Willoughby and
and things like this particularly the
case with environmental activists you
know those people who glue themselves to
Van Gogh paintings in them and uh the
statue of David or whatever it might be
when they talk they are almost like a
caricature like the kind of thing that I
would have invented
um as a joke of a kind of and have
invented in fact exactly well titanium
McGrath has that name because she's very
very well off part of the joke with that
and and part of what I find so funny
about so many of these activists is that
they are bleating about uh oppression
and persecution and privilege and
they're independently wealthy they've
got they've had everything handed to
them on a plate they're not in a
position Andrew you know you you look
I noticed this when I was teaching it
and with at Harvard at an Ivy League
school obviously and
so all of my students were the top one
percent obviously and if they weren't at
that moment they were going to be by the
time they were 40. so at worst they were
top one percent in in uh what would you
call infancy there we go and so you
might think that'd be good enough
on the privileged side but it seems to
me that there's a small codery of very
noisy people for whom being rich and
privileged is not enough they also want
all the victimization privileges of
being oppressed because then you can
have Bloody well everything can't you
and if you're a narcissistic psychopath
then everything is what you want and you
want it now and I I want to just follow
up on that a bit with regards to this
left-wing issue eh so you know there's
there's about a dozen studies now I want
to write an article about this or maybe
even a book there's about a dozen
studies now
looking at the personality predictors of
left-wing authoritarianism
and so
from 19 from the end of World War II
till 2016 social psychologists in
particular and that's a rather dismal
discipline denied the existence of
left-wing authoritarianism outright it
was only a right-wing phenomenon
apparently you know I mean Stalin and
Mao notwithstanding but it started to
switch a bit in 2016. we did a study in
my lab first of all showing that
left-wing authoritarianism
was a coherent you could identify a
coherent set of beliefs statistically
that were associated with so-called
Progressive causes allied with the
willingness to impose them using Force
fear force and compulsion so that's not
a bad definition of left-wing
authoritarianism but then a number of
other Studies have come out and the most
interesting ones concentrate on what's
known as the dark tetrad
and the dark tetrad is a group of
personality traits that were too evil to
make it into the standard personality
models they were excluded by Fiat to
begin with
manipulativeness that's machiavellianism
psychopathy which is predatory
parasitism narcissism that was the
original dark tet Triad but that wasn't
bad enough so the psychologists had to
add sadism to it to fill in the last
quadrant and the correlation between
dark tetrad personality traits and
left-wing authoritarianism is so high
that it isn't obvious that they're
distinguishable
go ahead is it not similarly High
amongst right-wing authoritarians no
it's not so it's a different kind of
authoritarianism
yes it look I mean this isn't clearly
laid out yet you know but the focus at
the moment now I think first of all
anybody who's willing to use fear and
compulsion and force is likely to to
also be characterized by those dark
tetrad traits but I think the additional
pathology that emerges on the left and
this is something we can discuss
obviously is that
you have to be a a particular kind of
evil snake to mask your uh Psychopathic
power mongering in the guise of
compassion and I don't think the
right-wing authoritarians do that they
more or less come right out and say like
[__] you I'm going to take everything
you have especially if you're a group I
don't like but the left-wing types they
say well you know really I'm your best
friend
historically speaking is that
necessarily the case I mean you know if
you if you take the example of the Third
Reich uh and the and and Nazism that was
underpinned by a belief a sincere belief
a sort of quasi-religious belief that
what they were doing was for the good of
society however abhorrent we might find
it look fair enough man I know perfectly
well that in the 1930s for example as
the Nazis marched towards the death
camps their primary rationale for the uh
original
implementation of Youth of euthanasia so
to speak of mass killing was
compassionate euthanasia but then I
would also say and this is something we
actually don't know you know that the
Nazis were National socialists and their
political stance was a weird mixture of
what we would think of as left and right
wing now right I mean there was the
there was the fascist component that
that involved the aggregation of power
at the Pinnacle corporate and
governmental and media all of that right
so that seems kind of right-wing in
monolithic but it wasn't like they were
it wasn't there were socialist elements
in the platform as well and so we don't
know enough to sort that out I would say
maybe on the statistical side but
doesn't all of this sort of point to the
fact or not even the fact but my
contention that actually thinking in
terms of left and right when it comes to
this is kind of redundant I think in a
way you've sort of hit it yeah exactly
the the debate has always been the
struggle between Liberty and authority
and so you know to go back to whether
I'm left wing or right wing I think I
think I'm probably just liberal I think
there are liberal-minded people on the
left there are liberal-minded people on
the right among Libertarians it's not
something that is tied to a left right
world view but when I hear people
talking about how uh trying to frame the
culture war in terms of left and right
or to say that the culture War doesn't
matter and there are more important
things actually this struggle between
Liberty and Authority which which John
Stuart Mill talks about in his book on
Liberty uh George Orwell has written
about this that that's the thing that
matters and the recognition that that
there is an authoritarian input levels
in humanity that there is an enduring
appeal to authoritarianism whether you
come from the left or from the right
this is something that George Orwell to
go back to he tackled this as well uh
it's precisely the reason why when he
wrote Animal Farm he couldn't get it
published for so long because people
were horrified by the possibility that
left-wing people could be authoritarian
and what he was saying is that this is
something that that doesn't it it it's
irrespective of of a left-wing view or a
right-wing view uh and I think although
you might be able to pinpoint
psychological differences and tendencies
among those on the left who have an
authoritarian bent and those on the
right who have a similar authoritarian
Bend perhaps it's more useful just to
think
particularly when it comes to the
culture war in terms of who believes in
traditional liberal values I know that
means something very different in
America but liberal values in so far as
individual autonomy shared Humanity
freedom freedom of expression freedom of
of the press etc those kind of liberal
values you can do whatever you want with
your life so long as it does not impinge
upon the rights of others that's
something that left and right can agree
on and the the social justice Warriors
whilst they might call themselves
left-wing really their movement is
characterized by authoritarianism they
oppose them
and quite well not just what it looks
like quite explicitly I mean the early
critical race Theory texts explicitly
say I mean if you read um Derek Bell or
he wrote an essay called who's afraid of
critical race theory he talks about how
critical race theorists have always
mistrusted liberalism they see them the
liberal project as having failed because
you we still live in a society where
where racism exists and they take that
as evidence that liberalism doesn't work
rather than right because the the
previous societies were so non-racist
right exactly they don't understand that
point the the the the the social
liberalism is about an ongoing process
it's about recognizing that we live in
an imperfectable world and trying to do
our best with a bad lot uh and the
problem is that that authoritarians tend
to be as well
kind of utopians even though in the case
of the social justice activists I don't
think they've got a clear sense of what
their final ideal society would look
like
um at the moment they just seem to me to
be on a sort of Rampage of Destruction
uh they probably well that is what it
would look that is what it would look
like just the way I've always thought
that Hitler got exactly what he was
aiming at he shot himself well Europe
was burning and it's like yeah I mean a
big [__] you to God fundamentally well
that but that was because he was the
personality type that would rather
everyone was torn down rather than he
fails I mean one of the things precisely
yeah well that is the dark Tetra type
man that's right I mean he's deeply he
was deeply narcissistic uh you know he
would bore people with those lectures
late at night when no one was interested
uh it was all he he it was all about him
uh one thing that comes out very clearly
there's a great biography of Hitler by
Ian Kershaw one thing that very much
comes out about that is this guy was a
narcissist and when he knew that the
game was up he wanted everyone to pay
yeah that's narcissism right there man
right that's absolutely right well and
he said that you know I mean we're near
the end of the second world war he he
when the Russians were advancing on
Berlin he continually expressed his
dismay at the uselessness of the German
people who had failed him yes he could
exactly and those who had failed on the
on the Eastern front or from his
perception had failed even though he put
the military in an impossible situation
couldn't take any responsibility for for
his own mistakes uh but that kind of
nasty and I don't like comparing social
justice activists to Hitler I think
that's that's their trick that's what
they do they call everyone Hitler but I
think you can definitely see that
combination of narcissism
uh and also a kind of religiosity uh
intolerance and and yes exactly what you
say a desire to destroy you know that if
we can't get our way we'll just destroy
everything okay so let's talk about that
I want to use that as a segue and and I
haven't tortured you about having a PhD
in Renaissance portrait we'll get back
to that I want to use that as a segue
into the religious issue because you
wrote a book here recently
um just make sure I get title exactly
right the new Puritans how the religion
of social justice captured the Western
World and so we could talk about
religious issues I've been thinking
recently along the religious lines let's
say that what we're seeing is just the
modern manifestation of an eternal
battle and that battle is laid out first
very early in the biblical Corpus in the
story of Cain and Abel because what you
have in that story is
two modes of adaptation which I think
roughly parallel a kind of demented
narcissistic authoritarianism and a kind
of
responsibility Laden individualism we
can we can discuss that but what happens
is Cain and Abel make sacrifices right
and that's what people do when they work
because work is the sacrifice of the
present to the Future
and human beings uniquely work I mean
maybe beavers work and bees but look it
essentially human beings uniquely work
we're willing to sacrifice the present
for the future now what happens in the
story of Cain and Abel is that Cain
appears to make bloodless and relatively
low quality sacrifices
whereas Abel's All In
and the consequence of that is Abel gets
rewarded by God and everyone loves them
and things go well for him and Cain
nothing goes his way and then instead of
noticing that maybe he has something to
do with that he calls God out for
creating an improper Cosmos and really
puts them on the stand and God says uh
look buddy if you got your act together
things would go well for you and the
fact that they're not might have more to
do with you than me and Cain thinks to
hell with you God I think I'll go kill
your favorite
and so that's the story and that's one
hell of a brutal story and then you know
Cain's descendants
including tubal Kane which is about four
generations down the line they're the
Builders of the Tower of Babel and also
the first people who make Implements of
War so there's an idea there that that
there's a resentful and bitter
revengeful spirit that preoccupies
mankind and that it can spread out from
the individual and take out the entire
polity and I can't help but see
a reflection of that on the intellectual
landscape now in the political domain I
mean I think now I'm curious about what
you think about such things because you
have described this new
movement let's say as religious so you
know what do you mean by that what do
you think about these more metaphysical
speculations I I suppose I should be
very clear about that and in the book I
do make it clear I've called the book
the new Puritans
um and I refer to the religion of social
justice because one of the things I'm
very keen to do and one of the reasons
why I feel that the uh the critical
social justice activists are winning is
because a lot of people do not
understand their aims they don't
understand what they're about and that
they are effectively fall for the
linguistic tricks I mean you all know
that the the culture war is largely
about who gets to define the meaning of
words uh activists often use words uh
but they mean the Opposites they call
themselves Progressive for instance but
I believe I believe that they are
regressive uh they call themselves
liberal but they are deeply illiberal
you know they're in favor of censorship
and authoritarianism uh they they they
scream about fascism while they
themselves are using fascistic tactics
such as violence to silence political
opponents so the the language unless you
understand where their coming from and
and unless you understand that there
their theirs is a belief system uh which
is largely tied to unfalsifiable claims
uh which depends upon a kind of cotary
of high priests uh edicts from above you
know telling the masses what they should
believe and punishing those who dissent
it has all the Hallmarks of
fundamentalist religion at least the
idea of excommunicating Heretics uh sort
of sniffing out Heretics searching for
them and and doing the metaphorical
equivalent of burning them at the stake
which is what we call Council culture
destroying their livelihoods destroying
their reputations a kind of merciless
brutal cruel and vicious quality which
nonetheless dons the guise of compassion
and righteousness uh you know I'm I'm
sure that bullies and and and innately
cruel as sociopaths throughout history
have probably been attracted to the
priesthood because it gives them the
opportunity to have a be in a figure of
authority to enact cruelty and at the
same time
to be validated as a a principled an
important member of society so I think
it doesn't mean like Pharisees and
scribes those sorts of people exactly
and I'm not I'm not suggesting for a
second you know if you take something as
brutal as the Inquisition I mean I'm
sure a lot of those people involved felt
that they were doing God's work and
genuinely thought they were on the side
of the Angels but you can be damn sure
that there were some Psychopaths who who
were attracted to those positions of
power so when I'm saying that the I talk
about the religion of critical social
justice I'm doing so to try and make it
accessible I found that if you just
because it is so baffling to everyone
most people are completely baffled
because for a start they have their own
kind of esoteric language this
terminology like heteronormativity and
toxic masculinity and uh cisgender Etc
words that most people just don't even
know what they mean but if you see them
as if you see them as kind of a Biblical
script or a religious text and they do
have their foundational holy texts such
as Foucault and Judith Butler and things
like that if you make this analogy to
religion I think it makes the movement
comprehensible and I think in order to
defeat it it has to be comprehended and
I think most people comprehend it so
let's let's let's try to get out
something that might approximate a
definition of religious so this is how
I've been thinking about it technically
so imagine that
you see the world through a hierarchy of
presuppositions
which you have to because you're
fundamentally ignorant you have to
presuppose things in order to move
forward because you don't have infinite
knowledge so you have to look at the
world through a hierarchy of
presuppositions then you can imagine
that some presuppositions are deeper
than others and what that would mean is
some presuppositions very little very
few other presuppositions depend on and
some presuppositions many other
presuppositions depend on
right sort of like it's like citation
depth in the scientific literature and
so freedom of speech for example would
be a presupposition in a liberal polity
upon which almost all other
presuppositions rest so if you move it
you're moving the depths
so a religion specifies the deepest
presuppositions and they have to be
axiomatic because that's sort of where
your ignorance bottoms out you have to
say I hold these things to be
self-evident before you can proceed and
that is something like the existence of
a deity as a priest
right okay so that's the next issue so
Kur I read a lot of Carl Jung years ago
and and very deeply and one of the
things Jung said about protestantism
which I found remarkable he he
criticized both Catholicism and
protestantism you know as a friendly
critic I would say pointing out that the
the Temptation that Catholicism might
fall prey to is one of centralizing
authoritarianism and the the Temptation
that protestantism falls prey to is uh
fractionating individualism he said The
Logical conclusion of the Protestant
Revolution is that every single person
becomes their own church
and so it looks to me like that's
happened and what's happened and
psychologists have abetted this and even
the great clinicians I believe have
abetted this just regardless of my
admiration for them by substituting the
self for God and I think what you have
especially on the psychopathic
narcissistic fringes of what used to be
the left and you see this on the right
as well is the the momentary
self-elevated to the status of God
well you see that an awful lot which I
think is why I mean you've identified
the narcissism within these kind of
movements but also the the rapidity with
which they uh resort to religious
terminology or religious ideas or
religious modes of expression for
instance uh you remember when um was it
outside of Netflix when were the
protests against Dave Chappelle's Show
and there was that comedian protesting
with a sign that said we like Dave or we
like jokes I think they had signs like
that and a one woman cornered him and it
was all caught on film and she screamed
repeatedly in his face repent
[__]
she said it again and again and again
and I I mentioned that in the book
because I love that that sort of
combined the the that combination of
rage and religiosity I think really
encapsulates what the movement is is all
about I think in terms of the
presuppositions of that movement which
it takes as axiomatic it's not
Supernatural okay it doesn't talk about
a deity uh even though it has its
profits I think uh from the the French
post-structuralists of the 1960s but I
think it does have certain axiomatic
presuppositions such as there are power
structures that dominate society that
underpin all human interaction and these
are based on the notion of group
identity and that that is how uh Society
needs to be understood as for Co talked
about grids of power through Society
power not being a top-down phenomenon
something that sort of uh is is latent
within all of our interactions and and
behavior
and they see
that they believe that these activists
believe that they can pick this apart
and understand it and remedy the wrongs
in society so long as that they can
identify where the power structures lie
and who is exercising privilege at the
expense of the oppressed that's why
um uh critical race theorists I mean it
was put like this in James Lindsay and
Helen pluck Rose's book that the key
question that you ask if you are a
critical race theory is not a theorist
is not uh did racism take place in this
situation but how did racism manifest in
this situation yes right right so it's
almost like a a ghostly spiritual thing
that is always there I think that's one
of the that's one of their major
presuppositions oh well then well so so
here's another way of thinking about
that from the religious perspective I
mean
Milton Satan is a an authoritarian
narcissist and he rules over hell and so
he's a figure that's very much analogous
to Mao or to sell it right to he's
someone who climbs the most pathological
possible power hierarchy and then
regards himself as a Victor even though
he's actually the biggest loser and so
so Satan is the spirit you might say in
the judeo-christian tradition who rules
the world by force
now the postmodern neomarxas types
believe that there's nothing but power
so I can't see that that's any different
than a certain Christian heresy that
rose up in the Middle Ages making the
claim that Satan himself was the ruler
of the Earth right because the notion
there is that power itself is the only
or at least the ultimate motivator and
well motivator is the right way of
thinking about it and so and then
it follows a lot of things follow from
that right one thing that follows from
that is that there's no such thing as
free speech because there's just
conflicts between different claims to
power and that if you promote free
speech that's just an indication of how
conniving you are to use that entire
philosophical language to do nothing but
buttress your own colonialist Power
claims yes because their theories always
put you in that position where you can't
win you know it's similar with with
critical race Theory they have their
notion of Interest convergence you know
when people say well there are extremely
successful black individuals in them in
in our history Barack Obama say someone
like that they will say the only reason
that those people have succeeded is
because it was in the interests of white
people uh to for them to succeed in
other words yeah if black people don't
succeed right so black people don't
succeed in society that's evidence of
critical race theorists claims but if
they do succeed it's also evidence of
their claims because that's interest
convergence so they keep putting you in
this kind of situation that to me has to
be
religious in without as in religious
belief that has not been it has merely
been asserted uh rather than proven
the fact that they take on the very
notion of rationality Enlightenment
ideas the fact that they think that
those things are even part and they also
see that through group identity that
that is just the product of some dead
white men in periwigs
president Trump recently issued a
warning from his Mar-A-Lago home quote
our currency is crashing and will soon
no longer be the world standard which
will be our greatest defeat frankly in
200 years there are three reasons why
the central banks are dumping the US
dollar inflation deficit spending and
our insurmountable national debt the
fact is there is one asset that has
withstood famine Wars and political and
economic upheaval dating back to
Biblical times gold and you could own it
in a tax sheltered retirement account
with the help of Birch gold that's right
Birch gold will help you convert an
existing Ira or 401K maybe from a
previous employer into an IRA in Gold
when currencies fail gold is a safe
haven how much more time does the Dollar
have protect your savings with gold
Birch gold has an A plus rating with the
Better Business Bureau and thousands of
happy customers text Jordan to 989898
and get your free info kit on gold again
text Jordan to 9 8 9 9898
[Music]
so so how do you understand there's
there seems to be okay so we figure we
we've got a couple of what would you say
contenders for deity one would be Satan
himself right the spirit of power the
other would be the untrammeled hedonic
self it's something like that but then
there's a weird there's a weird Paradox
there not that the Paradox bothers the
postmodern types that group identity is
Paramount
but full
what would you say full licentiousness
on the personal front and the granting
of every whim on the personal front is
also requisite and I don't I can't quite
square that
coherently like how is it that the
radicals can push forward the notion
that group identity is the only identity
but also push forward the notion that
everything possible is to be permitted
every individual at every moment but but
you put your finger on it when you said
that the the paradoxes don't uh trouble
the post-modernists you know it's sort
of built into their whole idea when
derida was writing he was trying to
write incoherently uh you know
he did manage it's absolutely unreadable
um
so
let me let me try and understand what
you're saying here
you were talking about we see this
worship of the self when you're talking
about so there's contenders for God
right we have power and we have the self
and then there there's a there's an
element of that that spreads out into
identity now that the radical types
definitely put forward group identity as
Paramount and what do you mean by
worship the self what do you mean by
licentiousness what do you mean by do
they believe that absolutely everything
is permissible that any kind of
individual uh desire is able to be
fulfilled because in their world I think
they're they're quite prescriptive
aren't they about which modes of
behavior are acceptable and which aren't
well that gets extraordinarily complex
because it looks to me one of the things
I see on campuses for example is the
insistence on the left Progressive front
let's say that any form of sexual
identity or behavior whatsoever is
permissible and not only permissible but
to be celebrated but now it's
complicated because at the same time
right ever every single interaction
between a young man and a young woman is
so absolutely dangerous that it has to
be subjected to contraction contractual
validation
well yeah well it's it's a weird
psychoanalytic truism you know that if
you go too far in One Direction You
simultaneously go too far in the other
and that really muddies up the water
right so the really narcissistic types
for example have an extremely uncertain
core
right but that doesn't make them any
less what what would you say fourth
writing their claims that they should
rule but I can't stretch your go ahead
but I don't I'm not so sure that it's
about uh fulfilling any Indulgence no
matter how depraved uh I think it's more
about what they call queering Society I
think it's more about if it is in the
service of uh demolishing uh the CIS
white heteropatriarchal structures that
are in place then that is seen as a
benefit as something positive right so
you think you think that licentiousness
serves the purposes of demolition what
what about the reverse hypothesis is
that because I would say this might be
more true of Foucault all the demolition
was put forward to license the
licentiousness
yeah I'm not sure about that I mean a
lot of people will say that because for
Co has as you know a very shady past uh
yeah you might say that yeah absolutely
and people have pointed out that there
seems to be a strong correlation between
some of the founding post-modernists and
shall we say uh well yeah depraved
sexual activity off sometimes pedophilia
these kinds of things the question I
suppose are you suggesting that they
created this kind of theoretical
framework in order to justify uh that
sort of behavior is that what you mean
well I do you see I'm not I I waver and
maybe maybe the causality is interactive
because
you could see I see a lot of stunningly
immature behavior on the radical front
from a developmental psychological
perspective so for example
a lot of the behavior I see looks to me
like unsocialized two-year-old Behavior
because two-year-olds are highly prone
to motivational and emotional whims in
the short term and they're incapable of
developing a shared frame of reference
that doesn't happen until kids are three
and aggressive two-year-olds who don't
develop that by four never develop it in
their entire life because they become
alienated and they don't make friends
and they can't further their development
and so you could say if this is sort of
a Freudian ID like view that part of
what we're seeing is the expression of
extremely unsocialized immature
motivational and emotional demands
fragmented
with uh with uh what would you say
temper tantrum like
insistence constant insistence that
those whims be granted
immediately and then you could say well
the entire power critique has been
erected by on the intellectual front
just to justify that although you could
also reverse it and say no the
licentiousness which was the case you
were making the licentiousness is
promoted because it's revolutionary in a
sense and it can be used to demolish
these so-called traditional power
structures well it has to be because
it's just they just have so many
impositions on other people's freedoms
they have so many ideas of what is
acceptable and what is not acceptable
particularly in the Arts uh in in film
in plays in books that you know they're
they're for censorship they believe that
things they are the work that horrible
word they use problematic and they like
to problematize things so it can't be
the case that they just believe in a
kind of global free-for-all it can't be
that because I think they they
come across more like Pharisees to me
than anything else but maybe what you're
describing in terms of the temper
tantrums and the things that we see uh
from from these people is that that is
just simply the natural consequence of
when you have Decades of academics and
figures of authority saying that we
ought to prioritize our emotional
responses and our own subjective view of
the of the world over objective uh
epistemological Frameworks you know or
actual practical responsibility I mean I
saw it right at the University of
Toronto was one of the things that
constantly made me morally ill was that
my idiot compatriots thought that the
best thing to do with young people was
to teach them to protest rather than to
help them figure out how to make them
their way responsibly and productively
which is they've created a generation
that are infantile I mean it is an
infantilized world and we see it in
absolutely every strand of our culture
and politics as well and it's because as
you say
academics by and large are activists
first and academic second uh you know
Helen pluckrose traces out to the what
she calls the applied turn of
postmodernism late 80s you know
post-modernist for many years were were
quite enjoyed sort of theorizing and
frolicking about coming up with these
Airy fairy ideas not applying them to
society not seriously saying we should
you know reconstruct society and apply
these methods and then they applied the
applied post model they said oh actually
we can we can we can actually change
society revolutionize Society through
the application of our untested theories
and highly contested theories and they
did it and and what's so tragic is not I
mean
is that it eventually works you know
we're now in a situation where our
government over here the government
certainly in Canada and in the US they
are implementing these ideas these these
highly contested theories in in public
policy in edu in the educational yes
they're making the mandatory yeah well
that was right you know that was what
propelled me into the public domain to
begin with was the first movie of that
sort on the true to Liberal government
front but that's amazing speech but
that's why surely it does Merit the
analogy with religion because you are
imposing on society ideas uh that are
not that are are based on belief simply
based on belief you know there is no
evidence uh or that that reorganizing
Society in the way that the critical
race theories would like to do to so
that we have a hyper racialized society
that focuses first and foremost on your
group of identity and secondarily on who
you are as an individual there's no
evidence that this is making Society
less racist or that so we seem to we
seem to have agreed that
the desire for demolition
and destruction
rules Paramount even over the desire for
untrammeled personal say self-expression
I think it that that is inevitable when
you
when you come from the supposition that
Society is inherently broken that it is
undergirded by power structures that
only support the the already privileged
that's that's okay so let's let's dive
into that because this is this is a good
place to further interrogate the left
issue so you know a lot of the people
that I talk with Russell Brand and Joe
Rogan Brett Weinstein those are good
Eric Weinstein those are good initial
um exemplars are
more classical leftist types and yet
they're identified by the screaming
radicals as gateways to the alt-right so
which is extraordinarily interesting
because it means as soon as you're no
longer a useful idiot
from the radical perspective you're
instantly a Nazi which is very
convenient for them but
here's the here's the thing
the postmodern critique that Society is
to be understood is nothing but the
manifestation of power is attractive
partly because when social arrangements
or even psychological Arrangements
pathologize they do pathologize in the
direction of power right so if you're
you can tyrannize yourself like an
Overlord you can tyrannize your partner
you can tyrannize your family in your
community you can act like a tyrant on
the on the local political stage and
then nationally right you can do that in
business as well and so and that happens
relatively often so the there's a core
of sense in the claim that power is a
powerful motivating force now I think
the radicals go too far when they say
everything is about power because well
everything is a lot of things and you
don't want to throw the baby out with
the bath water but the problem the
problem the left therefore has if the
left is willing to be reasonable and say
well some social structures are
corrupted by power then the left has to
figure out and can't because I've asked
like 50 senators and Republican and and
uh congressmen on the Democrat side to
do this
if you're left a stance is that power
corrupts Society
then how in the world can you tell when
those who make that claim take that
claim too far
and I've asked like the reason I brought
up the Democrat the Senators and the
congressmen is because I asked every
Lefty I could get my hands on and that's
been quite a few over the last five
years when the left goes too far and I
even asked Robert Kennedy that recently
and he said well I'm trying to run a
campaign based on unity and so I don't
want to go down that rabbit hole it's
like well the barbarian's at you are at
your gate buddy they've been canceling
you for 18 years so
so how do we separate out this well
there are so many things that you've
raised there I mean firstly you're right
to identify that there is a kernel in
truth of Truth in the postmodernist
claims the power is important it is
significant in human behavior and
society and history all of that that is
absolutely accurate and you're also
right that where they go wrong is to
assume that everything is about power
like you say power is really important
but it's not everything uh and I wonder
whether reducing reducing everything to
just power structures uh make things uh
understandable easier in a way yeah
because well we found the best predictor
in our first study the best predictor of
left-wing authoritarianism
yeah it was low verbal intelligence
right because people wondering
absolutely you and power power is a good
easy answer right to territory any
ideology is because it means that you
you you're Outsourcing your thinking to
a set of rules and I and that is what is
happening but that's why no all those
people that you you've tried to ask this
question what happens when the left goes
too far in terms of their own uh
megalomania they won't answer the
question because to do so would be to
acknowledge that there is a flaw in
their ideology there's a potential flaw
in their system that they're dealing
ultimately with human beings that's you
know it's a thing to go back to all well
it's the same reason why the stalinists
have never forgiven Orwell all these
people on the left have always hated him
for pointing out that the left is just
as susceptible to corruption as the
writers and they've never forgiven him
for that and it comes down to that idea
of moral Purity I mean one of the
reasons I call them the new Puritans
again it's an analogy it's trying to
make them accessible it's because in
their world to deviate even slightly
from this very simplistic formula that
they've applied to society to make to
give them power ironically enough to get
to put them to put them in a position
where they can control other people but
also can control their own
understandings and comprehensions of the
world because they've got this framework
through which they can look at it and to
to say well actually your framework is
flawed in all sorts of ways that's
harder because then you have to start
thinking and they don't want they don't
want to start thinking thinking is the
death of ideology uh I I I think that's
why you're getting that moral Purity but
it's also why I mean you mentioned
interestingly people like Joe Rogan and
Russell Brown been being considered a
gateway to the alt-right they're still
traditionally politically uh more more
akin to the left I would say than the
right but because they've deviated
slightly you have this kind of
puritanical Sledgehammer coming down and
saying no you're you're straying from
what what our ideology says you should
believe and that to me also feels like a
fundamentalist religion it feels like uh
you know within a and I'm making the
distinction clearly between a religion
and a fundamentalist religion because I
think even within Catholicism the
Vatican has always encouraged debate
theological debate and discussion it's
not as though they just give you the
catechism and say that's it
um there's there's all these kinds of
discussions and debates and nuances
being teased out in theological thoughts
theologians for centuries have have done
that but with fundamentalist religion
that doesn't happen does it happen with
Isis for instance you don't get the sort
of the leaders of Isis sitting around
cross-legged in their caves saying uh
you know let's let's decide whether
we're right about this fine theological
point that doesn't happen so what scares
me I think about the critical social
justice movement is that they are like a
fundamentalist religion for some reason
I mean this is why and you know this
whenever you meet one of these people
whenever you encounter them online get
into some kind of discussion you know
what their opinions are and absolutely
everything yes yes and and like turning
in a crank on someone's head I've never
been surprised by them I'd like to be
surprised once in a while I've had a few
occasions recently where I've gotten to
conversation you know I fall for it you
should just block them really because
they're not people who can be reasoned
with but every now and then I Take
debate and I say okay what is it you
think I've said what has upset you what
is the perspective that I have that you
disagree with and why and they can't do
it they just come back screaming Nazi or
whatever and then you think okay well I
shouldn't have bothered trying but they
but they they never surprised me I just
wish they would because if you're not
if you're not thinking for yourself and
challenging your own ideas if you're not
coming from the basis from from humility
if you're not coming
to the World on the understanding that
you're probably wrong about an awful lot
of things I don't think you're fully
human in a way I think you're you're
like an automaton you know you're just
you're just you're just following a code
possessed by a principality right I I
find that myself I find that Disturbed
okay so so let me let me hassle you
about something else I I tweeted out at
uh about
um about Richard Dawkins here recently
and I talked to Richard Dawkins and I
actually I actually admire Rich Dawkins
I liked his book uh his books they
taught me a lot in some of his essays
too and I think Dawkins is a real
scientist in in that he believes there
is truth and that the pursuit of the
truth will set you free which by the way
is a religious claim but he still
believes that in any case I also think
that darkens and Harris and the rest of
the new atheists help pave the land
Escape for this new woke catastrophe
because it's a humanistic movement
fundamentally and it's radically
anti-science and I think that Dawkins
well I know Dawkins sees that because
I've been watching his tweets and I did
talk to him and it's certainly the case
that the woke mob I think can take out
science even more easily than they can
take out the vestiges of judeo-christian
thought and they're definitely going to
do that so now now Dawkins Dawkins and
his codery looked at the history of the
West and they said well we should
dispense with that medieval Superstition
and we should progress down the
enlightenment Trail and I've talked to
Douglas Murray about this now the
problem with that it seems to me so Jung
said something very interesting as well
that I'll bring up he implied that
Catholicism with all its strange
mysticism and dreamlike
propositional structure was as sane as
people got like that that in order for
people to function psychologically and
to exist together socially the belief
system that United them had to have a
dreamlike quality okay so and that now
the the new atheist types would say well
no no we can replace all that mumbo
jumbo and and darkness and occult
mysticism with a clear-headed
rationality but what I see happening
instead and this is on the religious
front is that in the aftermath of the
death of God what we've seen re-emerge
is either a form of worship of power or
degeneration into a kind of polytheistic
paganism not a move forward to
Enlightenment type Dawkins rationality
quite the contrary and so one of the
things I I'm curious I know Murray is is
uncomfortable about this Douglas Murray
is uncomfortable about this
if the woke movement is a religion and
if it's a dangerous religion is the
alternative to that no religion or is
the alternative to that whatever might
constitute genuine religion what and
what do you think about that
well I think there is clearly something
within Humanity that we require a
certain satisfaction from some kind of
belief system uh which is out outside of
ourselves or a sense that there is
something Beyond ourselves I suppose you
might call it Transcendence I think
there is a need for that uh I think that
I get that through the Arts I think
that's why we create things that's why
we are creative beings uh which is also
why I think the woke movement is
threatened by the Arts and seeks to
curtail it and actually to transform it
into just another propagandizing tool
um because it fundamentally doesn't
understand what what art is so it is
interesting to me though to have noted
that the new atheist movement the one
that you describe they seem now to have
evolved into the most woke of all that
the the human rights right yeah there's
there's something about them uh that
they bought into gender identity
ideology very quickly probably before
other bodies did and the humanist
Society in the UK now is fully paid up
uh in that really
quasi-religious belief system the idea
of a A sexed or gendered soul that
doesn't match your biological form how
is that anything other than than
religious then actually how is it
anything other than Supernatural really
you know so I think of course so but it
has been interesting to me that those
were the very people
the people who were talking about
rationality and to to sort of claw back
the the the Primacy of Enlightenment
values that they are the ones who have
been most susceptible of all of course
this is what has got Dawkins in trouble
right that's well that's a that's a
stunningly
devastating observation right because if
it turns out that those who wanted to
walk down the mass Enlightenment pathway
yes produce children who were most
susceptible to woke ideology that's a
pretty damning bit of evidence for the
validity of that approach as far as I
mean yeah I'm trying to look at it well
well because it's also it's always it's
always concerned me that some of my most
intelligent friends and acquaintances
have fallen for the woke movement in in
other words you talk about the fact that
they have a lot of the activists are
very infantile in their behavior and yet
some of the smartest people in society
seem to buy into it it has the capacity
to infect everyone it it it perhaps
because it isn't responsive to
intellectual rigor it it exists
regardless of of that
um and right and that begs the question
of why it attracts the intelligent types
that you're describing I mean look it
originated in the bloody Academy it
didn't originate I hypothetically it
originated not only in the academy but
in the core of the academy that was
occupied with the humanities right so it
obviously appeals to the intellect let's
say or is it just that we're all we all
have the capacity uh to become uh to to
fall for hysteria is it possible that
we're just all I mean look look
my book opens with a discussion of Salem
the witch hunts in Salem and one of the
key things about that the more I read
about it
um and the more I was fascinated by the
fact that it was these figures in
Authority it was the ministers the
judges it was the highly intelligent in
the community who were the ones who were
pushing this I mean the girls were
screaming and crying witch and pointing
and saying that the devil was everywhere
and they'd seen people sign the devil's
book and all of that kind of thing I see
those girls as analogous with the
screaming anime activists online who
just shout Nazi everywhere they see
Nazis everywhere the girl saw witches
everywhere uh I see that as very very
similar but it would have gone away if
the ministers and the judges said no
this isn't rational you're wrong you
know there's no evidence for your claims
we have to move on but they didn't they
went along with it that's why people
ended up being executed it's when
figures in Authority capitulate to the
screaming of the children you've
described the children the activist has
children the activists themselves I I
would posit are not the problem if they
were all out there with their buildings
it's the
enablers it's the politicians okay all
right people in charge
so one of the things you see as the
biblical Corpus unfolds itself
symbolically
is an emerging relationship between the
figure of Cain and so that's that bitter
figure who's who's out for revenge and
the figure of the what would you call it
untrammeled intellect so for example
very rapidly after the Cain and Abel
story you have the story of the Tower of
Babel
and what you see there are Emperors who
are competing to replace God right
they're building Towers
that are ever and ever higher predicated
on the proposition that they could build
the Tower all the way to heaven so
that's like Jacob's Ladder and thereby
replace God then you have you know the
mil Milton's
meditations on Lucifer Lucifer is the
what the highest angel of God's Heavenly
Kingdom who's gone most wrong and he's a
stellar example of the of the
untrammeled intellect you know and I
kind of see this in the new atheist
movement too it's like we're so smart
that our theories can replace the
Transcendent now your way out of that I
think you just told me your way out of
that is your involvement on the
aesthetic front with the Arts right well
it's
I I think so well there were two there
were two ways yeah there's also humility
I think I'll come back to that point you
what you're describing is hubris and and
then yeah that's something which is
which is common particularly common
among intelligent people I think right
right absolutely it's this yes cardinal
sin of the intellect is humorous exactly
uh but yes the Arts I think are
uh uh I suppose our way out if they are
sustained because they they satisfy uh
that human need to to understand
ourselves and to explore ourselves and
to interrogate our existence uh it's
it's so important therefore that the
Arts aren't curtailed in the way that
they currently are being okay so let me
ask you a question about that I agree
with that I mean I see that the signal
power of beauty especially manifested in
music for me speaks of something that's
truly Transcendent so here's a question
for you so
is there a superordinate Unity
at which the Arts aim and is that Unity
not equivalent to the monotheistic
spirit I know this is a major question
right I'm not I'm thrown out of major
questions something makes the Arts the
Arts right it's their movement towards
Beauty what beauty and unity
Transcendence but are the Arts unified
are they you are they the manifestation
of a unitary spirit and now you see that
unitary spirit is what I think is the
antithesis of power I couldn't profess
to know and I think a lot of people have
attempted to Define even what art is and
I think yeah right failed I've always
liked Zola's definition of artists life
seen through a temperament the idea that
what the artist does is attempts to uh
present to you uh his view of the way
that he sees the world on the
understanding that that we all see the
world differently and there is something
quite beautiful about that about
expressions
but it's not just variety you know you
know it's not just variety because there
are qualitative distinctions between
presentations of world view so I mean
Dostoevsky trumps 50 Shades of Gray
right because yeah so there's a
hierarchy of grank right and the
greatest artists occupy the highest rank
and that is what tilts the more towards
that Transcendent Unity I think it's
something like that well well yeah
that's absolutely right it's genius
isn't it genius that's right that's how
the Canon is formed I mean the cannon is
you know I think academics like to think
that they're the ones who select what is
in the Canon the Canon is formed through
influence through to what extent other
great artists uh borrow and imitate
right and Innovation
that's the same depth of presupposition
that I was describing earlier right yes
the more the fundamental the text is the
more other texts depend on it but the
reason they do the reason that artists
do that is because obviously people like
Michelangelo
Brahms Dickens Shakespeare Dostoyevsky
all of these are clearly The Pinnacles
of human achievement they're achieving
something that that most of us simply
cannot do all we can do is look in awe
at what they have achieved and other
artists looking all at that and try to
come close to it or at least or in some
cases of extreme genius build upon it
um and that is right so maybe so this is
buying something fundamental well
there's a cardinal well there's a
cardinal observation because the
hypothesis that you just put forward is
something like
the purpose of art is to what would you
say to provoke the emulation of
greatness and that that's based on the
hypothesis that there is something
Transcendent that's great you know and
that's that Unity that I think that the
Arts are striving toward and yeah well I
don't know I don't think it's conscious
like that I don't think that we I don't
I don't think so either and I I all I
can say is
that artists I think great art provokes
something of the numinous uh in US right
and whether that's religious or
spiritual or Godly or whatever I don't
know but it's something I think it is
sort of by definition right I mean you
know what I mean it's like yeah well if
that's not religious then what is Dogma
it's certainly sure they're just on the
experiential front yes I suppose what I
mean is it doesn't it doesn't point to
the existence of God necessarily it just
it just points to the existence of
something Beyond ourselves that we
require uh in order to have a
satisfactory life I I it sounds a lot
like God okay well that would be well
I'm not trying to pick you you know well
that's the thing man because it is a
matter of definition you know like I I
don't think
God
this Transcendent Unity that I've been
tapping towards here is something like
the central animating Spirit of mankind
at its best
it's something like that now you might
say well is that real and that's not a
good question because
you have you can't ask that question
without bringing an a priority set of
presuppositions about what constitutes
real to bear on the question like is it
the same reality as the materialist
atheists claim most real probably not
no but that doesn't mean it's not real
it just means we can't agree on what
constitutes real well we can't agree on
what constitutes a woman so that's not
surprising well then let's suggest then
that oh let's agree that the the the the
critical social justice movement is
essentially Godless I think it is it is
Godless it doesn't have it has no
yearning after that sense of the
numinous and it has no capacity to
produce it that's why no great art has
ever been produced from can you can you
name a single woke activist who has
produced a great work of art in any
medium or any genre because I can't I
don't think okay so that's that's an
interesting that's a very interesting
observation you know what is it the
gospel statement by the fruits you will
know them so if they bear nothing but
bitter fruit then you might think
they're worshiping the wrong God or in
in your in your case they're no God but
right that was your criticism of the
world types I think they worship power
as a God but whatever we're close enough
on that so we don't have to discuss it
so let's talk about the artistic front
here because like I see the scientists
being mowed down like grass under a
lawnmower by the woke activists and
that's going to continue because the
real scientists don't have a political
bone in their body and they have no idea
what's coming for them but I'm
particularly sickened by the bloody
artists because the only thing they have
to offer is this connection to the truly
numinous that's true across art forms
right they point to the numinous and
they're willing increasingly to
subordinate that ideology or to remain
silent in the face of this Onslaught to
to bolster their moral
self-righteousness yeah cutting their
own throats uh it's horrible to watch
it's horrible to witness because genius
autistic genius can only come about by
those who can think outside the box who
can uh who are not conformists
ultimately this is a movement that
demands Conformity and artists of all
people are the ones who are going along
with it now to an extent I suppose
that's always happened though I mean it
must have always happened because people
artists have to get on with the business
of living
back in my ear and the Renaissance
period the area that I studied for my
doctorate you had patrons you had
patrons of the Arts in society you would
effectively say to William Shakespeare
for instance when when when King James
patronized William Shakespeare's company
the king's man it went from being the
Lord Chamberlain's been to the King's
Men And he said
yeah they they were patronized but they
could write Shakespeare could write
whatever he wanted right the the great
patrons are the ones who don't try to
steer the artist in a certain way I mean
sure you would get
for instance at the start of uh
Shakespeare's narrative poem Venus and
Adonis you have this uh you know this
this sort of a sycophantic passage about
the about the person to whom it is
dedicated Henry rudely the uh the Earl
and and that's because Shakespeare also
needed to live at that point he wasn't
yet a rich man at that point he became
very very rich ultimately but at that
point he wasn't so artists do require
uh an income and in order in our day and
age in order to for an artist to be
employed they have to satisfy a set of
demands by The Gatekeepers of various
Industries that's theater uh the
publishing industry uh comedy industry
television Executives Commissioners all
of those kind of things the problem is
that at the moment all of those people
are entirely captured by the woke
ideology they are all it's foot soldiers
or at least even in some cases I suppose
you could call them it's clergy and so
they make these demands to artists and I
suppose unless you are independently
wealthy what choice have you in other
words what this thing does is it's
you know we can't all be a van Gogh
living in complete poverty doing
whatever the hell he wanted well that's
a very that's a very uh sympathetic
account and I have some sympathy for
that account because I've I've seen
people
many many people who've been who faced
the threat of cancellation yes and are
terrified by it not least often because
they have a family to support let's say
but yes but so let but let me push back
on that a little bit and you tell me if
you think there's any flaws in this okay
so look as far as I can tell
your best bet in life is to play the
most Transcendent iterable strategy
and because you're going to pay a price
for what you do no matter what you do
you're going to pay in fact you're going
to pay the ultimate price no matter what
you do so you're already screwed in the
fundamental analysis now and that means
that you're
the fact that you're going to pay means
that you're always confronted with a
choice and the choice is to say what you
believe to be true and take the
consequences or to fail to say what you
consequences now people will say
well I don't want to speak right now
because look at the consequences and I
would say well that's always why people
have lied throughout history is to avoid
the consequences or to get something
they don't deserve and so I could say
from the Judgment perspective rather
than the mercy perspective especially to
artists it's like I don't give a damn
about your financial need the only thing
you have to offer the world is the
purity of your vision and if you
sacrifice that while you're killing the
goose that lays the golden eggs and you
might be protected in the short term but
they're going to come for you in the
future there may be a lot of these
creative people are thinking to
themselves I will play the game as far
as I need to so that I can establish
myself and then I can make my own
artistic choices that's yeah right it
doesn't work that's what the faculty did
they said over and over as they rose up
the ladder from graduate student to
Professor well once I have tenure I'll
be brave it's like that isn't how it
works you don't get a favor because
you're more pretty yeah okay so you
didn't do that so so why didn't you do
it so look I I completely share your
sense of dismay and particularly from
artists you know I think yes the world
the world of Academia is rather more
careerist I think and so although I I
think it's just as unforgivable it's
more understandable I think to be an
artist you have to be the kind of person
whose soul fealty is to your Muse it has
to be that otherwise you're not really
an artist in any serious sense at all
you have to be creating what it what it
is you are personally impelled to create
whatever drives you uh and and you know
there are some people who have done that
in history William Blake is because
William Blake was poor throughout his
life died in poverty and he could see
all these mediocre people playing the
game and becoming rich but he couldn't
do it he was too much of an authentic
artist he he wasn't he wasn't able to do
that
um and I wish all artists could have
that but the other thing about that is
actually very few people are great
artists most people are sort of Peddlers
of popular culture or you know kind of
functional hacks that people who can
produce the entertainment that actually
we do really need and require that like
I'm not trying to denigrate popular
culture I think it's really really
important but it's not the same as great
art right so that it the pop music I I
really enjoy pop music but I don't
pretend to myself that it's Brahms you
know that we have those hierarchies
hierarchies by the way which the work
would like to tear down and say that's
all about the implementation of power
again and the Implement implementation
of privilege they will say there's no
difference between a there's no such
thing as quality
no no no exactly exactly because it's
all about subjective feeling and they
would say that there's no difference
between an Elton John song and a
Beethoven symphony they'll say there's
no difference there it's just about you
know and to pretend that there is is a
problem in and of itself and that's why
I think there are two things the way the
artists could really be supported in
this partly comes from academic to
Academia partly comes from literary
theorists and people who by the way I
think have completely lost the plot but
they need to retain the Primacy of the
Canon of the western Canon they need to
say actually there are certain works of
art that are greater than others they
need to be able to be bold enough to say
that rather than uh stripping away
Chaucer or Shakespeare or Marlow or
whatever from the Canon to make way for
mediocre writers who happen to represent
a a marginalized group identity
well I I see in that again this
re-emergence of the spirit of Cain
because Cain imagine you're a mediocre
artist wannabe and part of the reason
for that maybe isn't so much that you're
talentless although that might have
something to do with it but that you're
unwilling to say a true word or to paint
a true brush stroke you're too cowardly
so you're not going anywhere okay so
you're getting irritated and resentful
because your sacrifices aren't being
appreciated by God
and so what do you do well if you're
Cain you destroy your own ideal right
because that's what Casey gain says to
God my punishment is more than I can
bear
now that's a very ambiguous phrase
because you can't tell exactly what it
refers to but as far as I can tell what
he means is well I've really spent my
whole life miserable and jealous because
I'm not able
and I want to be more than anything else
and now I've gone and killed my own
ideal and so how can I live I've I've
killed my own ideal well that's what
these bloody woke woke artists wannabe
types are doing it's not just even the
woke this predates the woke uh Harold
Bloom used to hit the great literary
theorist used to write about the
critical theorists the identitarian
theorists of the 90s as being the
theorist of resentment that's what he he
called them I I think that's exactly
right it started way back in the 60s
with feminist writers trying to
problematize writers such as D.H
Lawrence or Norman mail or whoever it
might be Ernest Hemingway whatever uh
saying that these writers are sexist I
mean when I was studying as an
undergraduate for English literature you
basically got the highest marks if you
problematize texts if you went through a
play and teased out the homophobic
elements or the racist elements you'd
get rewarded almost like you were kind
of a kind of moral detective and I think
it all started there it goes way back so
then I would I would say that's part of
the
prideful hubris of the intellect so you
have these second-rate creative wannabes
in English departments let's say
and instead of worshiping the spirit of
Shakespeare which is what they should
properly be doing and transmitting that
to students they elevate their critical
capacity over and above the creative
capacity of the artist lay moral claim
to the Integrity of their arguments and
then propagandize to the students and
who pay fifty thousand dollars a year
for the privilege which is why I go back
to humility because I think the only the
only sensible or intelligent approach to
Shakespeare is humility similarly you
know when we saw recently the publishing
hat which publishing house was it that
decided to rewrite PG woodhouse's novels
PG Woodhouse is the greatest comic Pro
stylist in the English language the idea
that a a group of 20-something uh
activists in a Publishing House think
that they can write better than
Woodhouse think that they can improve
his work by this sort of horrendous
boulderized version especially morally
more of course morally it's all based on
morals so it's so infuriating I mean it
makes me very very angry because it's
the arrogance of that uh that I I find I
find absolutely stunning but similarly
with Productions of Shakespeare so
there's um
uh that I just saw a review the other
day for a production of Julius Caesar by
the Royal Shakespeare Company by all
accounts it's just an identitarian mess
it's just it's taking the play and just
reshaping it to promote voguish ideas uh
that are in fashion at the moment about
group identity and the Primacy of group
identity and power structures Etc and
therefore they're missing the entire
play and as an audience member this is
why I think
it's better to read Shakespeare at this
point because as an audience member you
you you are subject to whatever
interpretation the director wants to
impose on it and if that director is
really a preacher in Disguise then
you're just going to get a sermon not a
play that that seems to me what's
happening over and over again I saw
today actually
um there was an article about MacBeth um
yeah which university trigger warning
it's a trigger warning on Macbeth at the
University in Belfort Queens University
in Belfast right now those people are
studying a module on Shakespeare and
it's actually even a secondary module
they already have a a decent knowledge
of the subject this is like an advanced
module where they are to really get it
get into the the weeds with this this
great writer and to put a trigger
warning in that is to say uh that the
way that we need to perceive these great
texts is through our particularly uh
obsessive moralistic identitarian lens
and that we have to see them as morally
dangerous texts potentially
maybe maybe they're exactly right on
that front because if you are a walk
propagandist there is nothing more
dangerous to you than the spirit of
Shakespeare sure and there is something
dangerous actually particularly about
MacBeth I think because I mean I think
Macbeth is one of Shakespeare's greatest
plays and I think one of the reasons why
I always found it disturbing even as a
child even though I didn't really know
why I found it disturbing as a child
because it's one of those that gets on
school text because it's such a short
one but actually when you watch it it
isn't like your
you know Shakespeare created so many
sort of great
uh embodiments of evil people like Iago
in Othello or Edmund and King Lear or
Aaron in Titus andronicus these figures
but but Beth is different because with
Macbeth
you go along you you go along with
Macbeth knowing that it could be you I
think it's the closest to what when you
when you write about Soldier knits and
talking about the line of Good and Evil
cutting through the heart of every man
that to me is Macbeth because Macbeth is
like this this incredible study into a
representation of what if we lived in a
world where we didn't have free will
Macbeth knows everything he is doing is
wrong and cannot stop it from happening
and and that's a it's like you're when
you're watching it if you're watching a
good production of Macbeth you are
Macbeth right and you're falling into
this Vortex your your that's why I think
well that's actually that's actually
like a definition of great literature
you know I think yeah literature almost
always portrays well something like a
romantic adventure and then something
like the Battle of good against evil
depending on how that's laid out right
it's a romantic Battle of good against
evil okay but the great literary authors
placed that battle in the soul of a
single individual right so that the each
character contains the entire landscape
of the cosmic battle instead of there
being some characters parsed out as good
and other characters parsed out as
villainous and so then when you sit in
the audience and you experience that
you're experiencing the Divine drama in
your own soul yeah and that is that
means let me throw you some something at
you so I went to uh
Jerusalem with Jonathan pajo and pajo is
about the deepest religious thinker I
ever encountered and he was a
post-modernist for a good while and so
is expert in that domain as well which
makes him a particularly vicious critic
now of the postmodernist uh types
anyways we walked the Via Dolorosa in
Jerusalem
and what that is as far so if if you you
imagine a tragic story then you embody
that and the ultimate tragic story is
the worst possible thing happening to
the best possible person right that's
like that's the Pinnacle towards which
all tragedy strives you might say and
walking the Via Dolorosa is a exercise
in literary experience because the point
of that pilgrimage so to speak is to
place yourself not only in the role of
the of the recipient of all that
brutality but also in the role of the
deliverer of the brutality right to
imagine yourself as the mob as yourself
as the best friend who betrays as the
like intellectually hubristic Pharisee
and Scribe as the hapless ruler of Rome
that's all you and that's what
literature does like it walks you
through that and I think Macbeth and
Macbeth and and plays of that magnitude
are
threatening to the to the woke types
most particularly because they do re
require that pilgrimage of moral inquiry
and that does upset the ideological
apple cart so they hate art they hate
art because it pushes past propaganda
always exactly and that's why The
Passion of the Christ is the most
powerful story and the most enduring
story not story but account of the
brutality that that we I mean when you
read about the experience of Jesus on
the way to Calvary could can any of us
be sure that we wouldn't be among the
jeering mobs throwing the stone no we
can be sure we would be we can be
certain we would be yeah the woke don't
agree with that do they because the woke
like to judge the past and they will say
that if I had lived in the Antebellum
South if I'd have lived in the Civil War
I would have been the ones trying to
free the slaves I wouldn't have been a
slave owner I wouldn't have been one of
those people who supported uh racial
segregation but of course they would and
in fact they would have been the first
ones sure because they can't all right
so so I've been thinking about this
mythological motif of the harrowing of
hell
so what happens in this ultimate tragedy
is that well first of all the best
possible person is put to death by the
worst possible people in the worst
possible way and you might think well
that's as bad as it gets right because
of course sort of by definition that's
as bad as it gets but you know that
isn't as bad as it gets and that's
pretty awful because you know you just
pointed to something is that if you're
looking at history and you have any
bloody sense you think I wouldn't have
been a victim or a hero I would have
been a perpetrator because most people
were perpetrators although you know
there were plenty of victims I would
have been a perpetrator and so then when
you realize that you likely would have
been a perpetrator and that you probably
are at the moment unbeknownst to
yourself well then you're facing
something I think that is in some ways
worse than death I think it's hell I
actually think that is that you have to
understand that there is a part of you
that would willingly dwell in Hell
before you can rescue yourself from it
at all you know and I think that's what
we're called to do in the aftermath of
the 20th century and the horrors of
Auschwitz to to wake up and think oh my
God there's something inside us that's
so malevolent that to gaze upon it for a
second is to suffer for Nightmares From
nightmares for the rest of your life but
that that's also your moral obligation
and that seems to me what the harrowing
of hell is right it's The Descent
through death into the realm of
malevolence itself and to and to take
that onto yourself so so when the woke
tried to police art apply trigger
warnings to Art uh censor it remove
scenes Etc are they in your view
attempting to prevent that experience
that that necessary Human Experience of
confronting the worst possible version
of yourself is that what they're doing
that's what that's what it looks like to
me I mean I think they're protecting
themselves from chaotic complexity but
that also denies them possibility so
that's terrible and hope but more
importantly they're trying to shuffle
off the responsibility of confronting
Satan in the desert so that there's
something well I mean there's something
quite understandable about all of that
isn't it because yeah it is
uncomfortable I mean people have done
this with the Arts forever when when I
mean one of the most interesting things
I think about King Lear for instance the
Shakespeare's King Lear is that that was
not the after 1680 roughly 1680 his
version wasn't on the stage anymore it
was it was Rewritten by a guy called
name Tate and that was the version of
King Lear that was on the stage for 150
years and in that version you have a
happy ending you don't have Leah come in
cradling his daughter who's been hanged
because they couldn't cope with that
they couldn't Co it and it's not just
it's not just because I think King Lear
of all his plays really represents his
complete Baron I mean it is Baron it's
it's pre-christian it is Godless it's
it's this Society where exactly what you
describe the best type of person has the
worst possible experience in spite of
what critics have said Leah is meant to
to be much loved a great ruler who is
subjected to this endless cruelty that
ultimately ends in an unbearable moment
the um the unbearable moment is Cordelia
coming in dead his fall has been hanged
it is completely nihilism this is a this
is this is a play that that that makes
you think what if there was nothing else
what if there was no God what if being
good didn't matter what what if what if
the very worst things happen to the best
and they couldn't handle it so the name
tape version was what people went to see
and in the end Cordelia gets married to
Edgar and it's a happy ending and and
although that seems like a travesty to
us
it actually makes sense to me as well it
makes sense why audience goers didn't
want to confront that why would they
well so so but well because I think I
don't think they would but I think the
horrible truth might be that the only
way to Paradise is through death and
hell right and that's like I'm not
saying that with with any degree of
satisfaction but I don't see you know
like because look one of the things I
tried to do I took my studies of
Auschwitz in particular but also the
gulag really seriously you know I was
trying to figure out
well I tried to put myself in the
position of an Auschwitz Camp guard who
kind of enjoyed his job
right and the horrible thing is you can
put yourself in that position and the
horrible thing about that is you
discover all sorts of things about
yourself by thereby doing so that you
pretty much wish you never discovered
but the upside and I suppose this is the
Redemptive upside is that if you
recognize within yourself the source of
all malevolence and evil if you can
actually do that if you'll look at that
then you can transcend it but there's no
other way there's no pretense and so and
I've I've been terrified of this for
decades is what I taught my students at
Harvard and at the University of Toronto
I said you you have to take upon
yourself the sins of the perpetrator in
order to rectify the catastrophe of the
Holocaust you know and weirdly and
perversely you know the leftist radicals
in some demented way are insisting upon
that right they say well the problem is
is they they put the onus on The Souls
of other people they say well look you
powerful people you white people you you
privileged group people you're the
purple perpetrators it's like no God
damn it you're the perpetrator but it's
really hard though for them to put
themselves in that position and for them
to confront uh that aspect of their own
soul if we want to call it that because
yeah it's the hardest thing it's the
hardest thing but also they can't do it
because they don't recognize their own
behavior for what it is they don't see
that they are the cruelest of the cruel
they don't see that they are themselves
capable of all sorts of monstrosities
because I've seen the way they behave it
also made I think Andrew that they don't
see anything like
something has to okay I always believe
that if you understood something
you could find your way forward like I
would say that's and I think my father
helped me with that in some deep way
right he he instilled that in me in some
way I don't really understand and I I
was I've always been convinced of that
and so
so one of the
consequences of that is the idea that
well if you can if you can take it upon
yourself to gaze into the abyss let's
say as deep as you possibly can that
what you will see eventually if you look
hard enough is the light but you know
you have to believe that the light is a
possibility right and maybe that's that
maybe that's the fundamental Axiom of an
appropriate faith is the light is a
possibility and if all you believe is
that power rules well how can you look
upon evil without Despair and what are
the consequences for Humanity if you
have a ruling ideology that doesn't
enable any of us to have that experience
anymore because that seems well we know
what the consequences we saw in the 20th
century right
right well many many times
well I suppose then it's not too
alarmist to say that that's where the
woke are leading us
what it looks like to me well no no
comedy no art no literature right no
science no free speech No Redemption
from guilt yes no genuine individual
identity no up no down right just just a
desert of of barren Endeavor right yes
with maybe some impulsive Hedonism
thrown in now and then and yet they
would like they would deny they would
deny everything you've just said they
would deny every claim that you're
making there they would say they're not
trying to do any of that at all that
they want to preserve art they want free
speech to flourish they just want to
protect marginalized communities within
that that's that would be their argument
the marginalized Community argument is a
very interesting one too I've been
trying to work that through especially
with pajo you know and and he helped me
walk through the idea of the center and
The Fringe in the biblical Corpus and so
there's an idea there's an idea for
example in the ancient geography of the
of the of the ancient Israelite times
the poor were allowed to glean on the
edges of the fields
right so there was a a border of
uncertainty around
what would you say around a demarcated
territory
and that border of uncertainty was where
the marginalized were allowed to thrive
and so there does have to be a center
and there has to be a margin but if you
bring the margin to the center you
destroy the center and you destroy the
margin and that's partly why I don't buy
the post-modern claim that it's
compassion that's driving
the centering of the marginalized
because the that's a serpent that eats
its own tail and I think what we're
seeing happen right now on the LGBT
front is that The Fringe Of The Fringe
is devouring The Fringe faster than the
center even right because you know that
most of the kids who are surgically
transitioned are would would have been
gay it's eighty percent yeah right so
that's pretty damn interesting and so
well that might be the thing that breaks
it apart I wonder if that's the thing
that breaks it apart because there is
now a Schism within this lgbtqia to S
plus whatever you want to call it
Community which doesn't exist anyway
and the Schism is precisely what you
described which is that gender identity
ideology is not just uh a an a a a
fanciful Theory uh a a quasi-religious
way of viewing the world it's also
actively anti-gay insofar as it does
suggest well firstly it denies
homosexuality because homosexuality and
gay rights have always been predicated
on the recognition that a minority of
people are attracted to members of their
own sex it eliminates that by saying
there's no such thing as same-sex
attraction and that actually you should
be attracted to gender or gender
identity this is why Stonewall which is
the UK's foremost LGBT charity redefined
the word homosexual on their website to
say it's same gender attracted I wrote
an article recently about this yeah yeah
and I mentioned Nancy Kelly non-women
being attracted to other non-women right
no not men non-man being attracted to
other non-men exactly definition of
lesbian now is
unbelievable and Nancy Kelly who who the
CEO of Stonewall has said that women who
don't who want to exclude biological men
from their dating pool are sexual
racists or akin to secretaries well
that's the logical that's the logic
right I I sped this five years ago in a
discussion I had at Queen's University
it's like right well you don't think
discrimination is right no we don't well
how about sexual discrimination should
you just lay down on the ground and
spread your legs for every Comer so to
speak because you're certainly being
discriminatory if you don't like really
like fundamentally that is the most
egregious form of discrimination they're
right about that absolute a sexual
orientation is a form of discrimination
like she she says you're you're like a
sexual racist if you don't want to sleep
with someone with a penis and you're a
woman no you're just homosexual right
she's describing homosexuality there but
she's saying that homosexuality is
itself bigoted that that and that's
coming from the head of the gay rights
the foremost gay rights charity in this
country that's insane the inversions are
incredible you know when I was at school
the kids the kids who were effeminate
the boys who were effeminate that who
didn't want to play football and all the
rest of it the bullies called them girls
they said you're just girls you're not
even a proper boy you're not a real boy
that's what mermaids and Stonewall says
now they say that's what the Tavistock
was doing they're saying you're
basically probably trapped in the wrong
body let's fix you like you say between
80 and 90 of adolescents referred to the
Tavistock Clinic our same-sex attractive
that's what they do in Iran that's the
hand of gender transformation sex
transformation surgery in the world the
mother which is really doing something
the mother's in Tehran and the heads of
Stonewall are are peas in a pod they're
totally they're they they feel the same
way about homosexuality Iran and
Pakistan for a while although not
anymore were funding saying sex change
operations because they hang gay people
from cranes that's why if they they get
that you get the death penalty for being
gay so of course they want to
heterosexualize and fix gay people but I
would never have seen this coming none
of us did you know I've spoken to all
these gay activists Who come out of
retirement basically and they're like we
never saw it coming where you know
it's more dangerous now to be a gay kid
than it was when I was growing up far
more dangerous when I was growing up oh
yes yeah so you guys were actually doing
pretty good under the uh what would you
say some of the judeo-christian fascists
I mean we had The Tender Mercies of the
tea activist types you know we had the
government putting implementing a thing
called section 28 where they they said
that teachers couldn't mention
homosexuality in schools unless they
linked it to AIDS that's not great
that's a terrible situation to be in
um so there was that so we had we had
anti-gay ideas from from members of
Staff fine uh if you were out as a gay
kid which no one was by the way you
would be beaten up you would be bullied
yeah you would be abused right but what
you wouldn't have is that figures in
Authority wanting to chop your dick off
right and that's that so it's much more
dangerous now like you wouldn't have
politicians and the media and the
commentaria and gay Charities saying
maybe we need to fix you maybe we need
to sterilize you let me ask you let me
ask you a question about that and this
is one that's really
well I don't know what to make of it you
know I just like the stereotypical guy
who says he's not bigoted I have a lot
of gay friends and there are people I
really admire so Bjorn lomberg Douglas
Murray you like Andy no you know that's
four those are pretty stellar examples
by the way I have a sneaking suspicion
by the way that the genetic
configuration that leads to male
homosexuality is integrally tied up with
creativity itself and that's why it
sustains itself in the gene pool that is
fascinating if true put it aside but
because I've always wondered why you
have this this disproportional
relationship
it's another possibility too which is
that if you happen to get the balance
between masculine and feminine qualities
exactly right as a man you are hyper
attractive to women right so that's
another possibility right so you could
think of homosexuality as an overshoot
of that Target now I'm speculating
although I think the creativity
hypothesis is a better one imagine that
homosexuality is polygenetic but it's
also associated with a much higher
probability of creativity well then
obviously it's going to be conserved
even though it has you know lack of
reproductive ability as it has to be
associated with something Stellar
because obviously it would just
disappear
so and gay men are radically
overrepresented in Creative disciplines
like radically if you can if you can get
to the heart of why that is I'd be
absolutely fascinated by that but um but
that was a side point wasn't it that was
a side point from what you had to say
about Yeah well yeah yeah well here is
what I wanted to ask you about and I
don't know what to do about this it's
like I think that part of the problem
that we're trying to figure out is back
20 years ago we we did what we could to
bring especially male homosexuality into
the center right by by legalizing gay
marriage and and by attempting to
normalize it in some ways now
I think that left a lot of questions
unanswered so here's one question it's
like well okay now if it's normalized
all of a sudden uh same-sex
relationships same-sex sexual
relationships
where do you draw the line and what the
hell do you teach children and one
answer would be you don't talk about sex
at all and another answer would be while
you talk about gay sex 50 of the time
you know like I don't know what the
answer is but but it really is a problem
and I think we're dashing ourselves to
pieces in some ways trying to solve that
problem and I don't know what the hell
the salute the solution in the U.S is
Take Your Kids out of the school system
that's what the solution seems to be so
but I don't know what you think about
all that it's so difficult because I
think educationists at the moment are
getting it very very wrong in terms of
what they're teaching children about sex
and gender and sexuality and all the
rest of it and I think gay people are
bearing the brunt of a lot of the blame
here you know so oh yeah what's
happening is you know when you have drag
queens twerking in front of children or
stripping in front of people that
doesn't seem good it doesn't look good
and because they have bracketed us all
as lgbtqia plus yeah this is one big
thing
then you know and there's evidence isn't
there that
um homophobia or at least I don't really
like the word but anti-gay sentiment is
on the rise because I think they think
this is they think this is gay people
doing all of this stuff it's not it's
gender ideologues it's gender ideologues
who have taken over the LGBT community
whatever that might be uh and as I've
said gender ideology is actively hostile
to homosexuality so gay people aren't
the the uh the the Agents of these
societal changes they're the victims of
it because now I'm getting it from both
sides I published that article in the in
the mail on um about the pride flag and
I was getting
gender idologues piling in on me uh
calling me evil and telling me I should
kill myself and you know the lovely
things that the compassionate people
often say and then I was also getting
right-wing people mostly from America
calling me a sodomite and saying that I
was evil and that I was going to burn in
hell for my sexual orientation so now
we've got it for both sides so great
thanks for that that I mean that's
that's what the work have done you know
it's it's not and that's why yeah yeah
and that isn't over yet you know no
there's no over yet that's going to get
a lot worse before it gets better and
God only knows how it's going to shake
out I mean this this year's Pride
Celebration was a whole new
foreign
corporations put their flags up every
they don't put it up in the Middle East
or in Saudi Arabia or places like that
where where it might actually make a
difference by the way flying that flag
where where gay people are killed for
being gay
um no they don't do that but they put it
up here they never did this by the way
before uh gay marriage before the age of
consent was equalized they didn't do any
of that they did they did they're doing
it now because corporations are so in in
lockstep with the work ideology which is
another reason by the way if you want to
go back to this Left Right distinction
why I think this is so unhelpful because
it's a move right right I agree I agree
yeah and I don't think there's any worse
walk than walk capitalism no that's a
bastard child of greed and ideology man
I mean some sort of monster well that is
right wing wokeness it can't be anything
but because capitalism is a you know
these are essentially money-making
bodies these are not these are not
socialists
organizations it's it's
so there is a confusion there and also
by the way whenever they the woke always
side against the workers you know
whenever I know that's so in and the
poor and so like so I know that's so
interesting too because I've watched the
the radicals especially in Europe over
the last five years because I was
curious is like well when push comes to
shove let's say on the climate front are
they going to sacrifice the poor on the
altar of woke and the answer is in a
bloody heartbeat in a second
but that's why that's why and whereas
I'm probably wrong to say the wokeness
is closer to the right or whatever that
is it's definitely not a left-wing
movement in any traditional
understanding of what left wing means it
can't be no I think we have to stop
thinking about it politically all
together exactly I think fundamentally
the religious analysis is the right one
but that's a weird one Andrew that's
going to take us some strange places
because if this is actually first of all
we're actually making the claim that
this is a spiritual little battle right
a religious battle and that's a hell of
a claim to make you know especially for
somebody who's more tilted towards
atheism and I don't even know what the
hell it means to make that claim but I
don't think it is a political struggle
fundamentally that's right and then and
and to bring that into the the lgbtq
stuff the way that sex education appears
to be run at the moment and I don't know
how it is necessarily where you are but
in Wales definitely in Scotland
definitely and in England we are having
similar problems uh you have gender
ideologues writing the curriculum
effectively yeah so children are being
told even though it is Canada after all
oh yeah of course think of this country
I mean we've got narcissistic we've got
no what would we see we've got the
Cardinal narcissist running our country
he's everything woke you could possibly
imagine and he's got that Psychopathic
charm that lends itself to fooling
gullible women it's a perfect Bloody
storm I don't see any difference between
you know effectively encouraging
teachers
to promote gender identity ideology to
young children as having a some kind of
hook-handed Islamic cleric come in and
say gay people should be burned to death
I don't really see the difference there
in so far as you're promoting a really
reactionary uh
a belief system onto children when it
comes to the realm of sex and sexuality
and I think that's really really
dangerous so unless we grapple with this
point or unless we as a general
population grapple with the fact that
sex education Now is really a religious
uh preaching that's all it is that that
you know there you were talking about
where do you stop how much do you teach
them about what actually kids generally
learn and figure things out for
themselves don't they so I've always
been of the view that sex education
doesn't need to be as I think people
need to know the basics but I think
there's there's far too much of it of it
going on but we've reached the point
where I mean you must have heard this
audio recording that was leaked this
week from a school in England a place
called rye College the teacher was was
recorded berating two 13 year old girls
because they would not accept that one
of their peers identified as a as a cat
yeah yeah and look out here it looks
it's pretty rude you know it's it is you
cannot let the poor girl wear a tail and
all that well you know they're they this
is the thing there'd be there was a
report in the telegraph this week as
well saying that there's there's a
school where one child identifies as a
horse there's one who identifies as a
dinosaur there's one who quite
creatively identifies as a moon and
wears a cape now I think what's
happening there is those kids are being
satirical they're they're what they're
seeing God I hope so no I think they are
let's go you know the the kids that are
saying I'm a cat and I need to lie down
and I need to be stroked and I need to
meow look they have seen that the
figures of authority the teachers are
totally capitulating to this bizarre
belief system this esoteric cult and and
this I would have done that in a
heartbeat when I was as I would have as
a kid 100 I would have said I'm a
velociraptor and yeah you have to you
know and you do what I say or I'll eat
you or whatever I don't care what it is
but but they these kids are pushy they
always test the limits anyway but what's
brilliant about this is
the teachers can't do anything about it
if I if I if a young child decides he's
a moon and wears a cape and a teacher
says no you're not she's denying the
sacred Creed of gender identity ideology
which is in the National curriculum now
so so she'll get so she'll get fired so
that this puts the kids in an incredible
position of power they're having fun
with it and this is also why I'm
slightly uh heartened by this because I
kind of think the kids are going to be
our way out of this I think I think I
hope that this mad religious fervor will
burn out because the kids see it for
what it is you know the fact that that
woman in that recording was saying that
these girls I think she said they were
despicable I think that was the word she
used despicable for not uh validating or
accepting their friends identity as a
cat
um I mean that's such an extreme
position for a teacher to take I also
don't by the way don't think it's fair
to
Dogpile her and bombard and I saw some
someone doxing her putting her face I
look she's just following she's probably
not a very intelligent person she's
probably not very thinking but she's
just following what she's told to say
she's been told by all of the teacher
training colleges all of the academics
in education that this is the case and
you've got to go with it and she's just
doing her job so I think that's unfair
as well um I would like teachers to be
more intelligent and creative and to to
challenge this stuff but you know that's
not happening
um so yeah maybe I guess we're I guess
we're learning why the Eternal serpent
always devours its own tale right right
it's so I'm hoping that see these things
push too far
start to eat themselves you know it's
it's we're like the strangest times man
that might be it that might be the Hope
though right that so yeah it's an
Optimum it's an optimistic point to make
but uh ultimately because I think this
ideology is not sustainable because it
is full of we we did walk ourselves back
from the brink of tyranny on the covid
lockdown front right I mean we were we
went full totalitarian for two years but
then everybody seemed to decide maybe
that wasn't such a good idea but that's
not productive isn't it the way that it
is now talk about it everyone sort of no
one mentions it now do they it was it
was you know you walk around and very
few people wearing masks
um people have just sort of they're kind
of weird turning point where everyone
just decided actually it's it's a it's a
virus with a very low mortality rate
let's just not worry about it and that
just sort of happened people have
forgotten the Mania the extreme meaning
people screaming at each other on the
streets if they weren't wearing masks
and the the extreme policies
um the Canadian government's reaction to
the the truckers who were worried about
their livelihood due to a lot you mean
stealing their Bank bank accounts
feeding their bank accounts and and
threatening to what give the money to
other to Charities or something didn't
they even didn't I mean you all know
yeah yeah gold said so 10 10 million
dollars was raised on GoFundMe that's it
yeah and then then the GoFundMe decided
they weren't going to distribute it to
the truckers then they decided instead
of refunding it they were going to
distribute it to a charity of their
choice then Ron DeSantis said I think
you better not do that or else and then
they decided they would refund it and
now the money that hasn't been refunded
is in escrow and there's a huge fight in
Canada about who owns it we haven't
settled the trucker mess here at all you
know but the trucker Convoy it had
something to do with everybody taking
those goddamn masks off I'm sure I I
wonder though how those politicians who
were involved in this will feel about
this in 20 years time I wonder about
that I know one of your politicians
claimed that the truckers were beeping
their horns because they were dog
whistling to fascists because the honk
honk is HH and that means Heil Hitler I
mean that was something that was
seriously that's common knowledge here
in Andrew everybody who hunts their horn
is actually secretly admiring Hitler
especially if they do it twice that is
so insane that and and I so I wonder
whether if the Salem witch trial level
is inside exactly and Salem is a good
example right because you know there's a
reason I've used it in the book is that
I think it gives us our Clues to our way
out because Salem happened so quickly it
happened within just over a year right
late 17th century this hysteria emerged
from nowhere and fizzled out immediately
and everyone afterwards repented
all of the people who were most involved
in it said we got that wrong what
happened there we went mad for a while
there because they weren't they weren't
well this is the first this is maybe the
first widespread mental illness
afflicting our new electronic nervous
system that's it I think this is a
hysteria on a global scale Akin akin to
what happened in in Salem I think I I
think it it's it's it's perpetuated
Itself by a similar means which is
firstly just the mechanism of Hysteria
which I'm not qualified to talk about
but also uh the fact that people in
Authority go along with it because
they're terrified not to you know
because in Salem anyone said hang on I
don't think this is right they were the
next to be executed so you don't have
politicians saying hang on a minute uh
is it possible for for human beings to
change sex uh do I know what a woman is
uh they all know the answer just as the
magistrates in Salem knew that the girls
weren't seeing the devil
but it all fizzled out very very quickly
and one of the points I make in the book
is about that all of the prosecutions
were secured on this thing called
spectral evidence in other words the
girls experience what we call lived
experience the girls believed that they
were seeing devils and therefore that
was taken as as evidence and that that's
why the case is collapsed because at the
end the Deputy Governor of Massachusetts
wrote to the leading clergyman in the
country and said can we use can spectral
evidence be admissible in court and they
all said no of course not the whole
thing disappeared overnight everyone
denied they had any part in it you know
these weren't witch Hunters they didn't
go around hunting witches that happened
a lot in Europe it didn't happen in New
England and so maybe that's the least
stupid pathway forward for us now and
maybe God willing that's the one we'll
take we should stop I guess I don't want
to because you're very entertaining to
talk to
um for everybody watching and listening
I'm going to talk to Andrew for another
half an hour
on The Daily wire plus platform side a
little bit more personally I want to see
a bit more about what makes them tick
and so if you're interested in that head
over to the Daily wire plus platform you
can throw those characters those
reprehensible right-wing bastards a
penny or two if you're inclined to
because uh you know they are heading the
fight to support free speech in the U.S
you know YouTube has been after us
because I'm allied with the daily wire
types being after us pretty badly in the
last month they took down three of my
talks including one with Helen Joyce
because you know how reprehensible good
old Helen The Economist journalist is
and they also took down a talk I had
with Robert F Kennedy despite the fact
that he's running for president and so
that's YouTube and they're definitely
going after all the daily wire folks so
thank you all for your time and
attention and Andrew for talking to me
and helping me delve into these things
get a little bit more clearly along with
everyone else and uh for everyone
watching and listening we'll see you
soon and to the Daily wire folks thanks
for your support Andrew off to the Daily
wire
thank you very much
[Music]
foreign